as a deer in the wild unfettered
goes for forage wherever it wants the
wise person
valuing freedom wanders alone like a
rhinoceros
from the moment we are born as human
beings the people around us
prepare us to fit the herd we start out
as being part of a family
and then we expand our social life with
friends acquaintances
colleagues and in many cases a
significant other
people tend to work together and spend
time with each other
and thus they form a well-oiled machine
called
society living among the herd has many
benefits
like safety security access to other
people
including potential mates and a shared
identity that creates a sense of self
but in some cases the herd doesn't want
you anymore
and you become an outcast or you don't
want the herd anymore
and you become a recluse or perhaps a
little bit of both
no matter what the reason is some people
just don't seem to belong
and when you don't belong you're an
outsider
so how do we handle being an outsider
this video explores the fate of those
that live
outside the herd
[Music]
someone has a desire to live in ways
that are considered abnormal
and purposefully chooses to walk a
different path
she doesn't seem to care about being
original in ways that original is
supposed to be
which could ironically make her quite
unoriginal and ordinary
in the eyes of the herd as she doesn't
follow trends
doesn't do as everyone does and doesn't
want what everyone wants
she has become the odd one out and is
totally fine with it
then there's this person who longs for a
community but is rejected
and finds himself without a tribe he has
tried to conform
he has tried to do as the romans do but
for some reason he just
doesn't fall in line this could be
because of the way he looks
or perhaps the way he speaks or simply
because the people around him
need a scapegoat and he happened to be
the chosen one
the difference between these people is
choice she
chooses to be an outsider he is
condemned to be one
often times things aren't that black and
white
we might claim that we have chosen to
live differently but in reality
we were never valued by our environment
in the first place
and the more we dealt with things like
double standards
favoritism rejection we slowly became
disentangled from the herd
and began to enjoy our solitude more and
more
we started to walk our own path and
watch humanity from a distance
seeing things rise and fall the
all-singing all-dancing crap
of the world and we often reflect on how
we got here
wasn't there a place for us among our
kin or have we simply been too stubborn
to non-conformist is there something
wrong with us
or is there something wrong with them
[Music]
being cut off from the group can lead
people to madness
or even worse the act of ending one's
life
this is because of the notion that not
belonging is something bad
something that we need to prevent but
here we are
outsiders misfits people that in some
way
and to some degree don't fit in
regardless of how this came to be
however this doesn't mean that there
isn't a way back
everything is in flux and as humans
we're incredibly flexible beings
in most cases we can find our way back
into society
if we're willing to adapt willing to
rotate along
with the mill of convention let's be
honest
doing so has many benefits even if it's
just being more connected with fellow
humans and having access
to a support network living together
working together
socializing together these things can
give us a huge
boost when it comes to quality of life
and overall enjoyment
it helps us to find a partner too if
that's what we're looking for
but there's also a price to pay which is
what many outsiders
are aware of dogma social control
people minding our business and
groupthink
or in short the herd mentality and for
many
this is too big of a sacrifice hence
many outsiders
rather distance themselves from the
group so they're free
from its pressure now being an outsider
doesn't have to be a bad thing the
solitary life doesn't necessarily lead
to madness
and not all lone wolves end up
committing horrible crimes
outsiders have a choice in regard to how
they use
their position will they use it as fuel
for misery
or will they use it wisely or could they
perhaps find a middle way
between connection and solitude
many outsiders have a deep concern for
humanity and are actually way more
connected
than the herd perceives them to be
history has known many hermits
recluses who at least temporarily closed
themselves off from society to live a
different life
and made great contributions to humanity
doing so american philosopher henry
david thoreau
for example spent two years of his life
in a self-built house
at a lake near the town of concord
massachusetts in his solitary existence
he wrote his masterpiece
walden a book that contains
philosophical insights and social
criticisms
that have remained topical to this day
also there are countless buddhist monks
that have cultivated
an unconditional love for all sentient
beings and serve
the greater good in their own way and
the ancient
desert fathers put great emphasis on
kindness
and charity by learning to let go of the
world
they can appreciate it more their
relationship with the world
becomes less transactional they love the
world for what it is
and what they can give it instead of
what they can suck out of it
it's the paradox of solitude by moving
away
from the world they gained the world
when we watch the world in solitude and
from a distance
we can contemplate questions like what's
my part in this
how can i be of service what people do i
actually want in my life
and how can i live my best as an
outsider while simultaneously remaining
connected
in being an outsider lies the
opportunity for a rich life
a life of meaningful connections with
other people that
transcend group think of benefiting
humanity in ways
that the herd wouldn't do of cultivating
love that's more universal
and not limited to the tribe liberated
from conventionality
and with minimal social pressure and if
we aren't such goody goodies then we can
play the world
in a fashion that suits us best we can
adapt
when we feel the need to talk like them
dress
like them enjoy their company before we
sneak out through the back door
in both cases we find a middle way
between mingling where we don't fit in
and preserving the freedom to leave at
all times
because where we don't belong they
cannot obligate us
to stay
thank you for watching
[Music]
you